* Most things in life actually don’t exist on a [[Linear Progress-Effort]] curve. The linear curve doesn’t work for life because most of life’s activities aren’t simple. They're not rote or repetitive or mindless, they are actually complex and emotionally or psychologically demanding. You adapt and evolve and circumstances change, and this is what makes life so complicated.
* For emotional and psychological experiences that only exist inside our own minds, that is where the [[Inverted Parabola]] kicks in. The more intensely you pursue happiness, the further away from it you get. The more intensely you try to feel confident, the more you question yourself and feel insecure. The more intensely you wish to be loved, the more your neediness repels people around you. The constant desire to be free from constraints is itself a constraint.
* Aldis Huxley once wrote,

> *The harder we try with the conscious will to do something, the less we shall succeed, proficiency and results come only to those who have learned the paradoxical art of do doing and not doing, or combining relaxation with activity the most fundamental.*

* Components of our psychology operate in this way because when we consciously desire a particular state of mind, we inadvertently create the opposite state of mind. So it’s by wanting to be happy that we remind ourselves that we are not happy. It’s wanting to be confident that we remind ourselves we are not confident. It’s by wanting to be loved that we remind ourselves that we don’t feel loved.
* Desiring a positive experience is itself a negative experience and the acceptance of a negative experience is itself a positive experience.
	* This extends to most if not all of our mental health and relationships. Whether it’s our desire to feel more happiness, confidence, control, satisfaction security, novelty — all of these things by wanting them, we simply move ourselves further away from them. It’s by wanting to stay on the surface of our satisfaction that we only cause ourselves to plunge deep into the water.
* Internal psychological experiences exist on an [[Inverted Parabola]] because they are both the cause and the effect of the same thing. The mind, when you desire happiness, your mind is both the thing that desires and the thing that is desired. When it comes to these lofty abstract goals, our mind is like a dog that, after successfully chasing and catching all sorts of other things in its life, has decided to turn on its own tail, and try to catch its tail. Why not? Chasing things has worked for everything else in life, why wouldn’t it work for happiness or confidence or security? But a dog can never catch her own tail. The more she chases the more the tail seems to run away. That’s because the dog lacks the perspective to understand that she and the tail are the same thing. The goal is to take your mind--a wonderful tool that has spent its life chasing many many things--and teach it to stop chasing its own tail. To teach it to achieve what it desires by giving up what it desires. To show it that the only way to reach the surface, is to let itself sink.
	* And how do we do this? You do this by relinquishing control. Not because you feel powerless, but because you are powerful. Because you have decided to let go of things that are beyond your control. You decide to accept that sometimes people will not like you, but you engage with them anyway, and sometimes you will not feel confident, but you do the thing anyway. That sometimes you will not be happy, but you will get out of bed anyway. You decide to accept that most of the things you do in your life will result in failure, and not only is that okay, it’s the only way to get back to the surface to breathe, to do it again.

## References

* [How to Get What You Want By Letting Go (The Backwards Law)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MF7RzKFMuT4)