* In Navy SEAL training there is something called drown proofing where they bind your hands behind your back tie your feet together and drop you into a nine foot pool. Your job is to survive for five minutes. Now like Navy SEAL training in general, most people who attempt drown proofing fail at it. But some people make it and they do so because they understand two counter-intuitive lessons:
	* First lesson of drown proofing is paradoxical: the more you struggle to keep your head above water the more likely you are to sink and drown. See the trick to drown proofing is to actually let yourself sink. You let yourself sink to the bottom of the pool and then you push yourself off the bottom to come back to the top where you gain another breath and you repeat the cycle over again. So in a strange way drown proofing doesn’t require you to have superhuman strength or an insane endurance. In fact you don’t even have to know how to swim. On the contrary drown proofing actually requires that you know how to not swim.
	* The second lesson of drown proofing is the more you panic the more likely you are to burn oxygen and energy and the more likely you are to fall unconscious. In the sick and twisted way the the exercise turns your survival mechanisms against you and if you think about it the skill that drown proofing demands the ability to give yourself up to some higher cause. The ability to relinquish control in the face of death. The ability to let go under the most stressful and trying circumstances. It makes sense why this is part of Navy SEAL training.
* With the inverted parabola, every increasing amount of effort towards an experience after a certain point actually makes it worse. That is, the more effort you put into doing something the more you will fail to do it. Drown proofing is one of the few activities that exists on an inverted parabola. Meditation, dancing, trying to impress people, are other examples.
	* Mark Manson refers to this as the "inverted curve", where every ounce of effort actually pulls you further and further away, but I think that's partially wrong. I think 

## References

* [How to Get What You Want By Letting Go (The Backwards Law)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MF7RzKFMuT4)